## What is this new series of lessons about?

Why did we write this series of lessons? The basic section only introduces the very foundations of rendering, and while every modern rendering solution out there is built upon these foundations, they are also significantly more complex. More complex in terms of code, but also of features and performances.

Our objective with this series of lessons is to understand the techniques that are used by modern rendering solutions. Our goals are the following:

- **Get the big picture**: building a more complete system to understand how the different parts that are typically making up a 3D rendering solution fit and interact with each other.
- **Getting some insights about the techniques used by GPUs for ray-tracing**: this is an extremely important topic. As hardware-accelerated ray-tracing is becoming ever more common, it's important to understand that GPU manufacturers such as Intel, AMD, or Nvidia spent a significant (in bold here, really significant) amount of time and engineering resources designing the most efficient system on the CPU prior to building ray-tracing enabled GPUs. Why? Because before you start setting things up in stone, you better be sure that the system you will encode on the chip is robust and bug-free but also the most efficient system that you can design (tweaks in the way an acceleration structure is built can impact performance significantly). And to do so, simulating things on the CPU to test various methods and configurations remains the best approach. Why is this important? Because the methods we are about to learn are the very foundations upon which these hardware-accelerated ray-tracing solutions are built. Therefore understanding them, will give you an insight into what the silicon on your GPU does when you use it to render 3D scenes using ray-tracing.