In this lesson we will look at the different parts a rendering system is made of, what they do and where they fit in the big picture. In this particular chapter, we will provide a global overview of the rendering pipeline. In chapter 4, we will look at the data pipeline part more specifically. In the last chapter, we will wrap everything we have learned in this lesson into a functional program. This program won't produce any image yet but will do a lot of work for us already so that when we get to the next lesson (to look at the ray-triangle intersection test again), we will have to write relatively little code to produce our very first image.

## Preamble

As mentioned in this lesson's introduction (and we will surely repeat this), we chose to base this series of lessons on accelerating ray-tracing, on the source code of an open-source project called Embree. Embree is a project developed by Intel. Its main function is to help Intel's team do some research notably with respect to acceleration structures. Why did we choose this project? Because it's open-source, well organized, well written, and well structured. Also because Embree is designed for studying acceleration structures and how the ray-geometry interesting tests can be accelerated through the use of multi-threading and vectorization; topics that this section is devoted to. Embree's ray-geometry library is used by quite a few commercial applications as it is considered to be one of the most robust, advanced, and efficient solutions for ray queries of different types inside 3D scenes.